Horizon is a diverse software and caters to areas of MMO gaming that are not limited to Ragnarok Online. But we can say that we are using RO to simulate the MMO environment which is needed to put our efforts into production. Now being such a large and diverse MMO software, there are capabilities of adding any amount of things into the configurations, databases, source and script codes of our software. What we are to establish is a guideline of what is to be adhered to when establishing yourself within the confines of Horizon's development environment. And ready ourselves with areas of knowledge to keep the core structure of the project intact, while establishing a good amount of control on the intended outcomes in regards to implementing certain desired features that is required to be designed by the project, and the ability to provide customizable features that will remain separately included within the software environment.

To establish our goals lets invest our thoughts in the quality of programming that is to be used when presenting a set of features required by the goals of our project -

- The code need not be very optimized as a basic level of optimization will suffice. However, there must not be any diversions from the intended outcome of the feature that is being provided. Any additional code that is is not related to the feature, will be outlined and out-listed from the project or change request.
- The code must rely on a guideline that follows good use and practice maintaining a constant effort to omit any crashes that occur in the running of the program.
- All code must be written following a good C++ coding style that is maintainable and readable by future developers of the project.
- No unfinished code or architecture is allowed to be part of the changes that occur in Horizon. With code that is left unfinished, we will either leave the change request un-monitored or close the request for future developers to take over the opportunity.
- Code that does not provide a properly designed algorithm or component structure will be left out of recommended reviews and analysis. Reviews will decline the code from being part of future changes and merges.
- If you have taken help from someone always mention them in the code change request or pull request or commits within the code. This makes it important to credit the authors and contributors of the code and also leave their reference in the code for future dependence during changes and updates.
- Copy pasting of work from one emulator to the other is prohibited and any copy/pasted products will be discarded and discredited.
- Always have the code checked with a continuous delivery pipeline. If all status checks are marked green, you are closer to code merges than the other change requests in our repository.
- Never remove any code that is previously added and is in working condition, your code is less likely to merge unless you have a valid reason for changing that line or working code which previously existed in the repository.
- Always check your code thoroughly before uploading to Github. Code that is not properly checked is not properly read or understood during reviews. Always re-check the code with debugging and testing it using clients or any method of fool-proofing the code works. Possibly provide samples of working proof of code.
- Previous contributors are usually ready to help if you are ready keep the work updated and maintained, be part of the maintenance team and have the code readily updated always.
- Allow others to contribute to your changes. This may seem a little intrusive or pushy but please make friends with other collaborators and allow a good working atmosphere in the code-spaces. We require a very decent and friendly atmosphere when it comes to working.
- Never review someone else's code unless you are asked to. For example, if someone has pushed a change request to the repository, don't be the first one to review the code. Wait for a reviewer with some experience to have it reviewed and then make a comment or statement about the code.
- Checking if people have submitted the right code really helps when reviewers are going about reviewing major changes or repository updates. Help reviewers by checking if pull requests are complete and reviewed by informing reviewers of the changes made to pull requests.
- When reviewers review your code, don't feel offended if someone points out a flaw in the architecture, logical functionality or mathematical functioning of your program. Make them part of your effort and have both of you provide an equally correct reasoning for providing code.
- Code reviews may be a lengthy and tough iteration to practice, but we are with you in every step of the way. We will get your code to be where it needs to. This way you would have contributed much more than you would have without having your code reviewed.
- Always be respectful to the people you learn from. Maintain a friendly student-teacher atmosphere if you are learning and understanding from developers and project leaders if you feel that you have achieved something more than you first expected.
- Horizon was made for people who are capable of providing a great and sophisticated learning atmosphere, so don't feel shy to tell someone that you are here to learn and expect that we will offer you the same learning experience that you have in mind.
- We all are friendly, lets make this a great development project for us and everyone who wishes to be part of our project!

Not following the guidelines repeatedly will probably get you ignored so try to encourage people to be away from going on the wrong path.
